[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Recently, Veterans of the Valley told the story of Navy CB Mike Guidry, his six-month tour of Iraq at La Fallujah and Al-Assad.
[Tom Turbiville]: One of his jobs in Iraq was to tell the story of the 28th CBs.
[Tom Turbiville]: He published a newsletter.
[Tom Turbiville]: He produced, he filmed, and edited a two-hour video that indeed puts a face on these particular men and women who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom.
[Tom Turbiville]: I suspect that it's representative of most all who serve in the war, the pride, the work ethic, and the humor that it takes to battle the fierce desire to soon be back with their families.
[Tom Turbiville]: Over the next two weeks of Veterans of the Valley, Mike Guidry will share with you some of this remarkable video of the 28th Seabees.
[Tom Turbiville]: Mike, this is going to be fun.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm looking forward to this.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've never done anything quite like this on Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk a little bit about the video in general and sort of the idea of doing it and the equipment that you used a little bit and sort of was it a real hassle to get the guys and the men and the women to buy into this, to do the skits and all of that?
[Mike Guidry]: Everything was spontaneous.
[Mike Guidry]: Nothing was planned except for some.
[Mike Guidry]: There was a few skits that were planned, but this was very much further into the tour.
[Mike Guidry]: You know, there was probably three hours total of footage that we did during an entire six month deployment.
[Mike Guidry]: It all started out with just me taking my video camera.
[Mike Guidry]: I would just film for myself.
[Mike Guidry]: And there was Admiral Phillips, which we'll see later on, a salute to him.
[Mike Guidry]: That's where the skipper approached me and said, we need to do a salute to him.
[Mike Guidry]: And that's what started it all.
[Mike Guidry]: It just turned out to be so well done.
[Mike Guidry]: But it was just a simple Sony, just plain video camera that I took, using a Macintosh Pro 17-inch laptop, which included your iDVD, iMovie,
[Mike Guidry]: That's what I use, and I had no experience and just kind of taught myself that.
[Mike Guidry]: But that Mac Pro was my father, Joe Guidry, by the way.
[Mike Guidry]: So that's how we got it done.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's a great production.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's get right to it, as a matter of fact, because we've got a lot to watch.
[Tom Turbiville]: This first segment that you're going to see, I'm going to introduce you right off the bat to a fellow named Kevin Gigan.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this guy is a funny, funny fellow.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're going to see a lot of him in the next couple of weeks.
[Tom Turbiville]: Also a slideshow of some of the people that served with Mike.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I want you to note especially the audio that's under the opening credits.
[Tom Turbiville]: Very, very impressive.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go ahead right now to segment number one of Mike Guidry's video.
[Video]: Good morning.
[Video]: I'm Captain Cabela.
[Video]: This is my last stand.
[Video]: You see that sign right there?
[Video]: You see that CB 28?
[Video]: I built that sign.
[Video]: I built that battalion.
[Video]: When I was this tall, and I am this tall, I was in that battalion.
[Video]: I marched.
[Video]: I marched every day to get where I'm at.
[Video]: I fixed and I repaired.
[Video]: Can do.
[Video]: Things that you're about to see in this little video, in this clip, is very serious.
[Video]: Take it serious.
[Video]: No man left behind.
[Video]: If they're left at that corner, what do you think they're going to happen to them?
[Video]: They're going to die.
[Video]: Go get them.
[Video]: Wagon will.
[Video]: Always go back and get them.
[Video]: Leave no man behind.
[Video]: I'm Captain Carbella, and I'm giving you a direct honor.
[Video]: Master Chief, get this thing going.
[Video]: This has always been extraordinarily well-coordinated and devastating terrorist attacks.
[Video]: Terrorism against our nation will not stand.
[Video]: The government will hunt down those responsible.
[Video]: Terrorism means striking terror into the hearts of people that has been accomplished.
[Video]: Looking in more baseman shock and wreak anger at what they were seeing in front of them.
[Video]: Good Lord.
[Video]: There was a packed game.
[Video]: And we see this extraordinarily and frightening scene behind us.
[Video]: This is just a horrific scene and a horrific moment.
[Video]: There are times in our lives that are just life changing.
[Video]: Where your life could never be the same and this appears certainly to be one of them.
[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Last picture. You may recognize the president of the United States and I guess that was a that was one of the special visits
that he that he made right?
[Mike Guidry]: Oh absolutely yeah we had no idea he was coming in someone spied air force wall on the tarmac they have what's called river city where if someone there's a fatality they shut down all communications going outside and that went down and security was really tight so you know nobody could say hey the president's here once people did find out so
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, we remember that here.
[Tom Turbiville]: It was one of those things where we woke up and the news said, hey, the president's in Iraq.
[Tom Turbiville]: Nobody, you know, the media didn't know he was going.
[Tom Turbiville]: They all was just told, get on the plane.
[Tom Turbiville]: We're going somewhere.
[Tom Turbiville]: So who's Corbella, who Kevin Geegan in the opening of that thing was depicting?
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Mike Guidry]: It's now Captain Corbella.
[Mike Guidry]: He was our old CEO back from like around 2003.
[Mike Guidry]: When we first had our original deployment back in 2003,
[Mike Guidry]: And Kevin, just spending a year with the man, he'll just get into your mindset.
[Mike Guidry]: He'll study the character and just imitate him, just constantly.
[Mike Guidry]: And that's how that all developed.
[Mike Guidry]: So there he is, you know, doing a Commander Cabello, Captain Cabello now.
[Mike Guidry]: Everybody knows, you know, that's with the Seabees.
[Mike Guidry]: He's a very well-known and respected man.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, when you're talking about morale, you need people like Kevin Geegan obviously around.
[Tom Turbiville]: And as a matter of fact, in this next segment, we're going to have more fun with Kevin Geegan and also going to be watching some video that Mike took of the initial flight to Germany and then to Kuwait on their way to Iraq.
[Tom Turbiville]: So let's go ahead and get going with more from Mike Guidry's video in Iraq.
[Video]: We got a lot of guys on the plane that's never been.
[Video]: I'm the commander and I'm taking them there.
[Video]: I'm going to bring everybody back.
[Video]: No hacky hog, two bears if you get one.
[Video]: Don't leave anybody behind.
[Video]: Turn that camera off.
[Video]: We don't need that.
[Video]: We're getting this sauna that Whirlpool sent to us over there.
[Video]: 900 bucks, it's 50 bucks a person.
[Video]: So we'll have a little hot tub.
[Video]: I say, I say, I say, I say I'm in Germany.
[Video]: I say with all these little old chickens right here.
[Video]: I say, I say, boy, I say we got to get on the plane now, chicken.
[Video]: I say, Mr. Rooster, I say, we want to get on the plane.
[Video]: Now, I'm going to go with your city, champ.
[Video]: Now, I'm telling you, critter, we've got to get on this plane.
[Video]: It's not for messing around here.
[Video]: It's cold right here.
Yeah.
[Video]: Come on, barman!
[Video]: Oh, Mr. Rabbit!
[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Mike Guidry told me earlier that on this particular flight, the initial flight, Mike, that to Germany and then to Kuwait, maybe the reality had not set in with the people exactly the chapter in their lives that they were about to go.
[Tom Turbiville]: But then later on, I think next week, we're going to see a segment where they're on the troop plane actually going.
[Tom Turbiville]: And that's where it was really hitting people a little bit more.
[Tom Turbiville]: But talk about sort of what we just saw, obviously more Kevin Geegan, but the passenger plane and still that was, there was some reality there too, right?
[Mike Guidry]: Sure.
[Mike Guidry]: That was, you know, that was, we left out of a point in California, Florida, Florida, up the East Coast and on over to Germany, which was where that stop was at.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Mike Guidry]: And, yeah, it was exciting.
[Mike Guidry]: It was like a normal flight over.
[Mike Guidry]: What was interesting, we all had our weapons with us.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Mike Guidry]: No ammunition, of course.
[Mike Guidry]: So that was, you know, kind of interesting.
[Mike Guidry]: That's where reality started to kind of settle in there as well.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Did you all really get the hot tub that he was talking about?
[Mike Guidry]: No, unfortunately not.
[Mike Guidry]: We had it on the order, but they never sent it over.
[Tom Turbiville]: They never sent it over?
[Tom Turbiville]: It's probably still in transit somewhere, right?
[Mike Guidry]: But as CVs, we were able to make our own hot tub.
[Tom Turbiville]: Or maybe the 28th that are there right now, they're enjoying your hot tub.
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that possible?
[Mike Guidry]: Tom, I never think about that.
[Mike Guidry]: You're probably right.
[Mike Guidry]: You probably are.
[Tom Turbiville]: Next thing that we're going to see, this is Al-Assad.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is one of your chapters that we move a little bit on into the chapter.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is Al-Assad, sort of a view from up above.
[Tom Turbiville]: Where were you standing?
[Tom Turbiville]: Where did you film this from?
[Mike Guidry]: This is on the roof of our, I really shouldn't say.
[Mike Guidry]: But it was up on the roof inside, you know, in our camp.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, it's a great view of the camp of Al-Assad.
[Tom Turbiville]: And also we're going to go on in a religious ceremony and something called the Oasis.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go ahead and go to it, let people see it.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then when we come back, we'll talk a little bit about what we saw.
[Tom Turbiville]: So here is the next segment of the video from Al-Assad.
[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: The swamp, I mean the oasis, it looked like a swamp.
[Tom Turbiville]: Tell us about that.
[Tom Turbiville]: There was a communion ceremony going on there, Holy Communion.
[Mike Guidry]: That was an Easter mass celebration last year in 2007.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes.
[Mike Guidry]: And what the historical significance is, it's a biblical area.
[Mike Guidry]: That's where Abraham and Sarah conceived their children.
[Mike Guidry]: It was at that exact location.
[Tom Turbiville]: Wow.
[Mike Guidry]: So a lot of historical significance there.
[Tom Turbiville]: What a great place for a religious ceremony.
[Tom Turbiville]: We were looking at it, and you told me the facility that looked like a stadium, a football stadium.
[Mike Guidry]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: That is a very significant place.
[Mike Guidry]: That one is very significant.
[Mike Guidry]: That is the soccer stadium where, I believe in 1998, Saddam Hussein invited his soccer team out there, who had just lost, I believe, the Pan Am Games, and executed all of them.
[Mike Guidry]: It was actually Uday and Kuse, one of his sons, were the ones that executed the entire soccer team, but it was on that field.
[Mike Guidry]: Right there.
[Mike Guidry]: Where that happened.
[Mike Guidry]: So that was on Al-Assad.
[Tom Turbiville]: Coming up next, this is fun.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is a spoof on the movie Office Space.
[Tom Turbiville]: One of my favorite movies.
[Tom Turbiville]: One of your favorite movies, too.
[Tom Turbiville]: So where'd you come up with this idea?
[Mike Guidry]: That was someone had a copy of that video.
[Mike Guidry]: And we were like, man, you know, we started thinking about it.
[Mike Guidry]: And our job in the COC was exactly like Office Space.
[Mike Guidry]: You know, because you have, if you make one mistake, you've got the Command Master Chief comes to you, the CO comes to you, the XO.
[Mike Guidry]: Everybody comes to you and tells you, reminds you the exact same thing.
[Mike Guidry]: And then you get a phone call, hey.
[Mike Guidry]: So we decided to do a skit with that.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, if you've seen the movie Office Space, you'll really appreciate this.
[Tom Turbiville]: And even if you haven't, you'll like it too.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go to the video.
[Video]: Just a moment.
[Video]: NMCB 28 C.O.C.
[Video]: Corté speaking.
[Video]: Just a moment.
[Video]: NMCB 28 C.O.C.
[Video]: Corté speaking.
[Video]: Just a moment.
[Video]: NMCB 28 C.O.C.
[Video]: Corté speaking.
[Video]: Just a moment.
[Video]: Hello, Deidre.
[Video]: What's happening?
[Video]: We have sort of a problem here.
[Video]: It appears you did not put the new cover sheets on.
[Video]: On your CB on the move report?
[Video]: Oh, yes, sir.
[Video]: Sorry about that.
[Video]: I forgot.
[Video]: Yeah, well, we're putting cover sheets on all the CBs on the move reports.
[Video]: Did you see the new SOP on this?
[Video]: Yes, sir.
[Video]: I have the new SOP right here in my inbox.
[Video]: I just forgot, but I haven't sent one out to the 30th, so there's no problem.
[Video]: Yeah.
[Video]: Well, if you could just make sure you do that from now on, that would be great.
[Video]: And I'll make sure you get another copy of that SOP.
[Video]: Oh, no, sir.
[Video]: Like I said, I've got one here in my inbox.
[Video]: Hey, Solo.
[Video]: Turn it down a little bit.
[Video]: But I was told by the mom that I could listen to it at a reasonable volume.
[Video]: Okay, but as a personal favor, you know, as a friend, could you share it down a little bit?
[Video]: But I don't understand, because I told the mom that I'm standing to be listening to it, and I should be able to listen to it.
[Video]: You're right.
[Video]: They are.
[Video]: Because that's my lunch hour.
[Video]: Hey, hey, what's happening?
[Video]: Hey, Skipper.
[Video]: We need to talk about your CVs on the move report.
[Video]: Yes, the cover letters.
[Video]: The S3's already talked to me about it, sir.
[Video]: Okay, because we're putting cover letters on them now.
[Video]: Yes, sir.
[Video]: I understand that.
[Video]: I understand the procedure.
[Video]: I received the SOP, and nothing was forwarded after the 30th, so it's not even going to be a problem.
[Video]: Okay, it's just from now on we're putting cover letters on the CV on the move report, so if you could try to remember to do that, that'd be great.
[Tom Turbiville]: That was a lot of fun.
[Tom Turbiville]: As a matter of fact, coming up in the next video is going to be sort of another spoof on another TV show.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's not Late Night with David Letterman.
[Tom Turbiville]: This was going to be called Late Night with the Skipper.
[Tom Turbiville]: And as Mike was referring to a little bit earlier, also a salute to Admiral Phillips.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this is quite an inventive part of the video coming up right now.
[Tom Turbiville]: So why don't we go ahead right now.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is Late Night with the Skipper followed by the salute to Admiral Phillips.
[Tom Turbiville]: Here we go.
[Video]: And that's our top ten list tonight of top ten things to do in Al-Asad on a hot day.
[Video]: Well, anyway, my next guest is EO2 Mark Guidry.
[Video]: Mike, sir.
[Video]: Right, Mark Guidry.
[Video]: And he's come here to talk a little bit about what he's been doing, and let's have one.
[Video]: Mark Guidry.
[Video]: Mark Guidry, everybody.
[Video]: So tell me, Mark.
[Video]: It's Mike, sir.
[Video]: Right, Mike.
[Video]: Okay.
[Video]: How long have you been with us here on outside?
[Video]: Been here for approximately a little over six months now.
[Video]: Wow.
[Video]: That's a long time.
[Video]: Does it seem like a long time?
[Video]: No, absolutely not.
[Video]: It's been flying by, sir.
[Video]: Flying by.
[Video]: Absolutely.
[Video]: That's great.
[Video]: Well, so what have you been doing while you've been here?
[Video]: Well, I'm working the COC, of course, and tracking movement.
[Video]: COC, does everybody know what the COC is?
[Video]: Combat Operations Center.
[Video]: Right, okay.
[Video]: Yeah, we get hung up with the acronyms sometimes.
[Video]: Forget that, you know, not everybody knows what we're talking about.
[Video]: Okay, so the COC, yeah.
[Video]: COC, and of course I'm doing the PAO position, public affairs position.
[Video]: There you go.
[Video]: What does the public affairs involve?
[Video]: Public affairs involves
[Video]: photography, documentation of the deployment through photographs, as well as documenting which we do on film.
[Video]: And also I'm doing just anything dealing with artwork, the command coins, which I've developed.
[Video]: Right.
[Video]: And really done a nice job, I want to say.
[Video]: I bought a couple myself, and they're going to turn out good.
[Video]: Very well.
[Video]: And a cruise book as well.
[Video]: Good, good.
[Video]: Also a monthly newsletter?
[Video]: Monthly newsletter.
[Video]: Great, great.
[Video]: Now, as I understand it, you didn't start out here in Al-Assad.
[Video]: Is that correct?
[Video]: That's correct.
[Video]: I started out in Camp Fallujah, actually.
[Video]: Wow, that place is a pit, isn't it?
[Video]: It wasn't all the... I'm sorry, Ben, anybody from Fallujah out there?
[Video]: I'm just kidding.
[Video]: It's a great place.
[Video]: Great place.
[Video]: My wife's from Fallujah.
[Video]: Good, good.
[Video]: I'm glad to hear that.
[Video]: Glad to hear that.
[Video]: Now, I understand you as part of your... Oh, let me ask you one thing I'm kind of curious about.
[Video]: You're in an EO2.
[Video]: Correct.
[Video]: It's an equipment operator.
[Video]: That's correct.
[Video]: And when's the last time you operated some equipment?
[Video]: 1998.
[Video]: Whoa!
[Video]: Okay, great.
[Video]: Now, in your PAO job, I understand you worked on a little something for Admiral Phillips.
[Video]: That's correct.
[Video]: We did a...
[Video]: It was Admiral Phillips' retirement party that was going on, and I was approached to film a documentary or a little skit with that, and we came up with a little something.
[Video]: In fact, I think we have a clue about that, don't we?
[Video]: Do we have a clip?
[Video]: Can we roll it?
[Video]: Let's roll that one.
[Video]: All right, great.
[Video]: Roll the clip.
[Video]: Hi, I'm Commander Craig Sharp with NMCB 28 in Al-Assad, Iraq.
[Video]: Master Chief Fletcher, XO Gardner, and I
[Video]: like to salute Admiral Phillips for his 32 years of distinguished service to the Navy.
[Video]: Salute!
[Video]: Outcoming.
[Video]: Admin Department.
[Video]: Salute!
[Video]: Armory!
[Video]: Echo Company!
[Video]: Salute!
[Video]: Ops Department!
Fly Department!
Salute!
Pro Company!
[Video]: Salute!
[Video]: Medical Department!
[Video]: Chapel.
[Video]: Salute.
[Video]: Combat Operations Center.
Salute!
[Video]: Can you hear me now?
[Video]: Good.
[Video]: Communication platoon.
[Video]: Hello, I'm Commander Craig Chardon from NMCB 28 at Al-Assad, Iraq.
[Video]: Please join Mass Chief Fletcher, XO Gardner, myself, and the men and women of NMCB 28 as we sing the sea song to commemorate Admiral Philip's 32 years of distinguished service to the United States Navy.
[Video]: We're the Seabees of the Navy.
[Video]: We can kill and we can fight.
[Video]: We'll pave our way to victory and guard it day and night.
[Video]: And we promise to remember the 7th of December.
[Video]: We're the Seabees of the Navy.
[Video]: And the Air Force.
[Tom Turbiville]: Hey, we're about out of time, but we've got a whole new show next week with more of the video.
[Tom Turbiville]: So be sure and tune in next week for more of the video from Al-Asan.
[Tom Turbiville]: For Mike Guidry, I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Join us next week.
[Tom Turbiville]: More video right here on Veterans of the Valley.
[Silence.]